The Joe Rogan experience. I mean, I think about how much,
um, like how many mental health tools I need. I don't, I'm not, I am like you,
I have mental health problems. I've had anxiety in my past.
I had debilitating hypochondria that I overcame,
man. I should really write a book about it. I should write,
kill your hypochondria before it kills you because it was debilitating.
It was debilitating.
And it was, I wish people don't get past that. Oh, my therapist was like, you,
how did you do this? But it was basically, I took, um, okay,
so it was kind of a three-prong attack because I'm like,
I can't live like this because hypochondria truly makes you feel insane
and you know, you can objectively know I'm crazy, but your mind gets stuck.
It's like OCD. And so it's,
it's kind of based in OCD because you get stuck in a loop.
Like I would just get stuck in a loop, for instance,
like there's something wrong with my lip. There's something wrong with my lip.
There's something wrong with my lip. There's something wrong. I don't know.
Or just get stuck in that loop. Or I have throat cancer. I have throat cancer.
I have the, you know, I would just be like stuck in this crazy loop.
It's insane. It's insane. Did it come slowly or did it, it got worse,
you know? No. Um,
I think I come from like a long line of hypochondriacs though now because my mom
used to have, you know, those,
do you remember those books before the internet where it was like,
if you have this, it was like a choose your own adventure, but it was like,
if you have this symptom before the internet, there are these books.
Or he'd be like, if you have these, this symptom go to page 233,
and if you have this and I remember my mom would use those quite a lot.
So I think she has some of it. Um, my dad is just a big worrywart, so,
um, I have that kind of neurotic energy, I believe.
But I think too,
I was smoking a lot of weed and I mostly got it when I was hung
over. Like that's when it would be the worst is I would be hung over. So anyway,
I had.
To realize what you did to your body. I think.
I just had, I had to attack it from,
from three different places.
So the first is the actual, um, I was like, all right,
I'm going to rewire my brain.
And I set myself out to do this and I put a rubber band on and I did that stupid
thing, but it totally worked where if I was like,
there's something wrong with my lap and I'd snap my rubber,
rubber band and I'd be like, I'm healthy. I am healthy.
I would just replace it with, I am healthy. And if I come up with an idea,
I read somewhere that it's a good way to help with like repetitive thoughts or
to just help yourself. It, I mean, I was training my dog at the same time too.
And I was like, this is kind of like dog training.
I just have to interrupt that, you know, like that, that firing.
And there's that whole idea of what fires together, wires.
It's not even an idea. It's like what fires together, wires together.
So every time the other thing I had to do was be a deployment.
What fires together, wires together.
So it's this concept of whatever you're kind of thinking
and acting on it. It just creates like a pathway,
a neural pathway in your brain that gets stronger and stronger if there,
um, if it's like the, like, for instance, if I,
so this is why part two was replacing the thought,
but I also couldn't act on it. So I couldn't go look in the mirror.
I couldn't go Google anything. If I thought I had cancer,
I had to cut myself off from acting on because a lot of people who have
hypochondria they'll they'll obsessively,
Google they'll go get tested for everything.
They'll spend thousands of dollars getting tests. Luckily I was not on,
I didn't have insurance.
I was too poor to really like lean fully into my hypochondria that way. Um,
and I just had to stop myself from the action because that, you know,
anytime you have a thought and you act on it,
it reinforces that connection that like mind, body connection.
And it would reinforce that pattern of worrying.
And then I had to start observing. I kept, this is very, I guess, too,
it's very like, um, CBT, so cognitive behavioral therapy.
I didn't know this is kind of what I was doing,
but I would keep now they have very,
it's like you keep a record a thought what they call a thought log.
And I would just document when I had the thought, what brought it up?
Like what triggered that back?
Cause there's always kind of a trigger and then what action I took and what
action I could take to replace it. And so I,
sometimes it's just not acting on it at all.
And then I started working with therapists on all the things that were
underpinning those, um, the, the triggering thoughts.
So one was like, I couldn't hold joy. I just,
anytime I felt like I was excited about doing anything. I was going to Hawaii.
That was when I was like perseverating on my lips. And I couldn't, it was like,
I could not enjoy anything without my brain telling me that everything was
going to and I was going to die. So I had to look at that.
Where does that come from? Feelings of worthlessness upbringing, whatever.
Then the other one was shame around sexuality. Like there was just some,
a lot of shame around, um,
like I was pretty promiscuous when I was drinking a lot and I didn't,
I wasn't always proud of the men I woke up with and it happens to the party
girls and, you know, I was an engineer,
I was an international sleds. And, um, there were some,
there were some like guilt I'm Catholic to raise Catholic.
So that got squirted in before I had a chance in hell.
And so there was lots of shame around that,
that I had to really look at and deal with. And, um, and yeah,
so I just started looking at all this stuff and I like, it took me, it was work,
it was fricking work and now I'm like completely free of it.
I don't, yeah. Congratulations.
I mean, I, I definitely,
I feel like I can live and breathe and I can just be present was big.
And then I think a lot of people forget that, you know,
drinking and substances are not a coping mechanism. They can be, if you,
if you are not using them addictively but for many people like drinking
is they'll be like, I have a coping tool it's drinking. I'm like,
that's that a coping tool exacerbates.
It or not.
So I had to quit that and I was joking just like how many things I need to
do to start my day. I'm like, I wake up, I meditate. I have to like, you know,
I have to work out or I'm a crazy person. I've got to sweat. They're just,
I just know what I have to do. And people it's important. I think instead of,
and people ask me all the time, how I deal with the online hate and all that.
I'm like, I just go work out. That's my answer to everything.
Yeah. That's an answer though,
because he requires effort and it requires it like as much as it's difficult
when you're sitting down in front of a computer to overcome procrastination,
right. Multiply that times 10.
And it's getting to the gym because the physical discomfort of you like
your mind while your frame of mind, you.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It will also be free.
That's all we're asking is just go download Spotify much, Bubba.